as Matsuo Basho said do not seek to
follow in the footsteps of others
instead seek what they saw this is about
knowing not what others have done this
is about not chasing somebody or
replicating somebody or imitating
somebody this is about figuring out what
you want what do you want
and then really growing to understand
that really beginning to form your own
opinion and it doesn't mean that you
don't listen to other people it doesn't
mean that you don't sit at somebody's
feet and learn from them it simply means
that the goal is not imitation the goal
is understanding and when you go into
learning something knowing that that
thing has utility that when you get that
skill when you really understand that
thing what it's doing is giving you a
brick that you're going to be able to
build something with but remember the
goal is the building the goal is to
create something that didn't exist
before and the only way to do that is to
actually understand what you're doing
mimicking the motions of somebody else
will not allow you to create something
that has never been before it will not
allow you to bring something into the
world that is never before been seen it
will only allow you to replicate your
goal in life isn't to be a copy machine
your goal in life is to express yourself
to create things that only you can
create that your mind in this time
courage of all the unique things that
you've encountered that you've learned
the connections that you've make the way
that you bring things together that's
never ever going to exist again it's all
you uniquely that's your job in this
life is to build something from that
place but to do that you actually have
to understand what it is that you want
and as Erlin McManus said there are a
few things more powerful than a life
lived with passionate clarity that
clarity only comes when you
and it only comes when you take your
time learning to really grasp the
concept to not read a book to tell
someone that you've read it to not
complete a task to check it off the list
the goal is to actually understand how
to use that thing knowledge isn't power
used knowledge is power putting that to
use to actually do something
understanding it well enough to create
from that thing that's the end goal so
don't worry about what other people
think don't worry about what other books
other people have read don't worry if
you ever make it to the last page of
anything simply ask yourself do I
understand what I need to understand to
build the life I want to build to bring
to this world the things that I want to
bring however counterintuitive however
weird it doesn't matter if it's a moment
of beauty for you and you understand how
to build it build it that's the greatest
joy you're ever going to experience in
life is being truly and uniquely your
self as JBS Haldane said the world Shall
Perish not for a lack of wonders but for
a lack of wonder everything around you
is incredible if you're willing to look
at it that way everything around you can
be taken for granted if that's your
perspective but it really is about the
frame that you choose to put around
things I mean simply being alive is
already insane the odds are so stacked
against you not only just being a human
but being a human at this moment in time
this moment in time will breakthroughs
in technology are happening at at an
unprecedented rate where breakthroughs
in medical science are happening at an
unprecedented rate where our ability to
connect with people to empathize with
people all the way around the globe all
of the changes that have happened in
technology and telecom and connectivity
health everything we're living in the
most miraculous time ever
but you have to look at it that way and
as Joseph Campbell said life is a
wonderful wonderful opera except that it
hurts so the question is do you see it
is the beautiful opera or do you just
pay attention to the pain and at the end
of the day you're gonna get what you
focus on they're both true this is both
the most amazing time that's ever
happened ever in recorded history and
yet real things that are terrifying are
also happening but where you put your
energy where you put your attention
where you put your focus is going to
determine what you see and that is the
most fascinating and the most important
thing you have to understand about the
way that your mind works you get when
you focus on if you focus on the things
that are bad they would become real they
will become exaggerated they will begin
to monopolize your thoughts you'll see
them everywhere it's called the
reticular activating system your mind is
literally designed to pay attention to
the things that you notice once you
notice a certain car you see it
everywhere once you notice a certain dog
you see it everywhere once you hear a
certain name for the first time suddenly
realize that that name has been all
around you this entire time but now that
you're focusing on it now that you're
looking for it
it is everywhere so whatever you look
for it's gonna be everywhere if you look
for the negative it'll be there but if
you look for the positive it will
overwhelm me and as Joseph Campbell said
people say what we're all seeking as a
meaning for life but I don't think
that's what we're really seeking I think
what we're seeking is the experience of
truly being alive and that's it
that's the juice figuring out that thing
that makes you come alive
it isn't keeping up with the Joneses it
isn't how much you're getting paid it
isn't anything other than for you
something very specific will be
different for everyone but for you find
that thing that makes you come alive
focus on think about it put your time
and attention there shift away from
seeing the pain in the Opera and instead
seeing the wonderment and at all seeing
the glory that is just everything around
you the opportunities the fact that
you're alive once you can see that those
basic things that you take for granted
that you can breathe into the nose and
out through the mouth all of that stuff
once you start seeing how were Acula sit
really is once you start seeing how
we're connected to each other once you
understand that the name of the game
isn't wealth
it isn't fame it isn't ambition or
success it's neuro chemistry it's
feeling a certain way it's finding
fulfillment in your life once you
realize that you'll understand this is a
game of attention and you entirely
control what you focus on so choose very
wisely my friends because your life will
literally become the summation of the
things that you look at
[Music]
you